GCC21: Tool dev tutorial updates (#2692)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/dev/tutorials/tool-from-scratch/tutorial.md

>    > ### {% icon code-in %} Input: Bash
>    > ```bash
>    > wget -O bellerophon.tar.gz https://github.com/davebx/bellerophon/archive/1.0.tar.gz

> >    > shasum -a 256 bellerophon.tar.gz # Copy the 64-character hexadecimal number that this outputs.

Author: ```suggestion
> > sha256sum bellerophon.tar.gz # Copy the 64-character hexadecimal number that this outputs.
```

on writing a wrapper. Although this section will cover the full process and many of the options available to
anyone wrapping a tool, a more complete list is available in [the Galaxy tool docs](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html).

## Installing Planemo

Planemo is an important tool within the Galaxy development workflow. Although it will be covered in greater detail in the
next section of this tutorial, one of its functions is necessary for the tool wrapper development. `planemo` is available
via the python package manager `pip`. To that end, before beginning this section, please install `planemo` locally by running
`planemo`. To that end, before beginning this section, please install planemo locally by running

> > ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Installing `planemo` via pip

Author: ```suggestion
> <hands-on-title>Installing `planemo` via pip</hands-on-title>
```

>
> It is advised to install `planemo` in a virtual environment (step 1-2).
>
> 1. Create a virtual environment: `virtualenv -p python3 ~/.venv/`. Here `~/.venv/` is the path where the virtual environment should be crated and you may adapt the path to your needs. With `-p python3` we make sure that a `python` intepreter version 3 is used.
> 2. Activate the virtual environment: `. ~/.venv/bin/activate`
> 3. Install `planemo` `pip install planemo`
{: .hands_on}

Note that for using `planemo`from a new shell you will need to activate the python virtual environment again.

> > ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Testing `planemo` and getting help

Author: ```suggestion
> <hands-on-title>Testing `planemo` and getting help</hands-on-title>
```

on writing a wrapper. Although this section will cover the full process and many of the options available to
anyone wrapping a tool, a more complete list is available in [the Galaxy tool docs](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html).

## Installing Planemo

Planemo is an important tool within the Galaxy development workflow. Although it will be covered in greater detail in the
next section of this tutorial, one of its functions is necessary for the tool wrapper development. `planemo` is available

> via the python package manager `pip` and `conda`. If you not have conda installed we suggest to use `pip` for installing

Author: ```
via the python package manager `pip`. To that end, before beginning this section, please install `planemo` locally by running
```

`planemo`. To that end, before beginning this section, please install planemo locally by running

> ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Installing `planemo` via pip
>
> It is advised to install `planemo` in a virtual environment (step 1-2).
>

> > 1. Create a virtual environment: `virtualenv -p python3 ~/.venv/`. Here `~/.venv/` is the path where the virtual environment should be crated and you may adapt the path to your needs. With `-p python3` we make sure that a `python` intepreter version 3 is used.

Reviewer: Do we need to tell folks how to install virtualenv? (Or `venv`, whichever is easier)? Or should we have them use conda since presumably they've installed conda?

Author: I thought about installing `planemo` with `conda`. I remember that I asked on a gitter channel and got the advice to opt for python venv.

Reviewer 2: It used to be a horrible mess if you started galaxy and conda was on path. I wouldn't go down that route now.

Reviewer: Ahh that's too bad. That would've made installation easier for users.

> 2. Activate the virtual environment: `. ~/.venv/bin/activate`
> 3. Install `planemo` `pip install planemo`
{: .hands_on}

> > ### {% icon hands_on %} Hands-on: Installing `planemo` via conda
> >
> > 1. Install [miniconda](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html)
> > 2. Create a conda environment with `planemo` installed `conda create -c conda-forge -c bioconda -n planemo planemo`
> > 3. Activate the conda environment `conda activate planemo`
> {: .hands_on}
> 
> Note that for using `planemo`from a new shell you will need to activate the python/conda environment again.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that for using `planemo`from a new shell you will need to activate the python virtual environment again.
```
